AMD Vega Release & Specs Update: Radeon RX Vega is Almost Human? Might Launch in May With Enhanced Graphics

AMD has designed the upcoming AMD Radeon RX Vega GPU for enthusiastic PC gamers. Latest leaks and reports claim that the AMD Vega will be almost like Human and will be available with enhanced graphics.

Earlier, the cards of AMD have used Polaris architecture and LiquidVR technology that made the device capable of providing a robust virtual reality (VR) experience. However, in the absence of a high-end memory support, a fully immersive virtual reality gaming performance is impossible to deliver with the new AMD Vega.

Nevertheless, the forthcoming AMD Vega GPU would solve the issue as a next-gen graphics processing unit. The latest AMD Vega GPU will make things way easier for the CPU. In fact, AMD is planning to launch its upcoming limited edition Radeon RX Vega with the full Vega 10 GPU, 8GB of HBM2, and an all-in-one liquid cooler, as reported by Tweak Town.

According to Segment Next, the latest AMD Vega teaser video was recently leaked online. The latest leaked video showcases how the high-end graphics card would look like upon release.

The publication further reported that Reddit user PeacefulFellow has posted the 50-second-long teaser video of AMD Vega. The trailer displays the phrase "It's Got A Soul... It's Got A Brain... It's Almost... Human." It is to be noted that the teaser still unofficial.

The leaked teaser video did not only showcase the upcoming Vega, but also the limited edition models. The high-end variant of upcoming AMD Vega will be available with a unique packaging design, as per WCCF Tech.

AMD's latest flagship AMD Vega GPU promise to provide users a graphics card that can keep up with its competitor, Nvidia's GPU stack. These Vega-based cards can go further than the most powerful graphics card for gaming of Nvidia.

Despite that, the upcoming AMD Vega could unveil during the Computex Convention on May 30.  There are also reports that claim AMD may debut the RX Vega at a special event before the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3 2017) that will start on June 13.
