AMD Confirms Computex Press Event, Radeon RX Vega GPU And Ryzen Enthusiast CPUs Expected

AMD has begun emailing members of the press to mark their calendars for Computex, the annual tech convention in Taipei that is now right around the corner. While AMD was coy about what exactly it plans to discuss at Computex, the company did confirm that it will be attending and that it will provide new details on its 2017 products. We suspect that will include more information (and a possible product launch) for Vega.

Company boss Dr. Lisa Su will host AMD's keynote, along with "other key executives," the email reads. They will discuss AMD's "latest products and leading-edge" technologies. With AMD's bigwigs in attendance, this suggests that not only might Vega be a point of emphasis, but perhaps enthusiast Ryzen processors (codenamed Whitehaven) as well.

"The past year has seen AMD bringing innovation and competition back to the high-performance desktop market with the release of Ryzen processors and we look forward to providing new details on 2017 products and the ecosystems, both OEM and channel, that will support them," AMD states in its email.

AMD has already stated it plans to launch Vega sometime in the current quarter. That gives it until the end of June. Computex takes place from May 31 to June 3, with AMD scheduling its press conference for the first day of the convention at 10:00 AM. It makes sense that AMD would use Computex as a launchpad for Vega, as there are no other major events scheduled between then and the end of June.

We're less sure (but still optimistic) about Whitehaven. Engineering samples for AMD's forthcoming enthusiast grade Ryzen CPUs were recently spotted in the wild, each one wielding 16 physical cores and 32 threads. It's rumored that Whitehaven will require a new socket, just as Intel's enthusiasts chips do, to accommodate a bump to quad-channel memory support and more PCI-Express lanes.

Stay tuned, it's shaping up to be an interesting summer.
Read more at http://hothardware.com/news/amd-confirms-computex-event-vega-gpu-ryzen-enthusiast-cpus-expected#6hbjCRBjjE40t1gm.99
